design-pattern-kotlin.md, before:

## Overview:
Some common design pattern with quick example

### Builder Pattern:
It's a pattern to build up a complex object in a step by step approach.
```kotlin
open class Item(val name: String, val price: Int)

class Noodles : Item("Noodles", 10) {
    override fun toString(): String {
        return name
    }
}

class Vegetables(vararg val toppings: String) : Item("Vegetables", 5) {
    override fun toString(): String {
        if (toppings.isEmpty()) {
            return "$name Chef's Choice"
        } else {
            return name + " " + toppings.joinToString()
        }
    }
}

class Order(val orderNumber: Int) {
    private val itemList = mutableListOf<Item>()

    fun addItem(newItem: Item): Order {
        itemList.add(newItem)
        return this
    }

    fun addAll(newItems: List<Item>): Order {
        itemList.addAll(newItems)
        return this
    }

    fun print() {
        println("Order #${orderNumber}")
        var total = 0
        for (item in itemList) {
            println("${item}: $${item.price}")
            total += item.price
        }
        println("Total: $${total}")
    }
}

fun main() {
    val ordersList = mutableListOf<Order>()

    // Add an item to an order
    val order1 = Order(1)
    order1.addItem(Noodles())
    ordersList.add(order1)

    // Add multiple items individually
    val order2 = Order(2)
    order2.addItem(Noodles())
    order2.addItem(Vegetables())
    ordersList.add(order2)

    // Add a list of items at one time
    val order3 = Order(3)
    val items = listOf(Noodles(), Vegetables("Carrots", "Beans", "Celery"))
    order3.addAll(items)
    ordersList.add(order3)

    // Use builder pattern
    val order4 = Order(4)
        .addItem(Noodles())
        .addItem(Vegetables("Cabbage", "Onion"))
    ordersList.add(order4)

    // Create and add order directly
    ordersList.add(
        Order(5)
            .addItem(Noodles())
            .addItem(Noodles())
            .addItem(Vegetables("Spinach"))
    )

    // Print out each order
    for (order in ordersList) {
        order.print()
        println()
    }
}

```


### Design Pattern Common:
* Adapter: Adapter is a design pattern that adapts the data into something that can be used by RecyclerView. Usually adapter fetch data from a datastore/databases and format the data to feed the ui/recyclerview.

* ViewHolders: RecyclerView doesn't interact directly with item views, but deals with ViewHolders. A ViewHolder represents a single list item view in RecyclerView, and can be reused when possible. A ViewHolder instance holds references to the individual views within a list item layout (hence the name "view holder"). This makes it easier to update the list item view with new data. View holders also add information that RecyclerView uses to efficiently move views around the screen
* LayoutInflater: inflate an XML layout into a hierarchy of view objects. Or simply it converts xml layout file into a view objects

### Android Architectural Principles:
* The main principles are separation of concerns and driving UI from a model.
 - Separation of concerns: The separation of concerns design principle states that the app should be divided into classes, each with separate responsibilities.
 - Drive UI from a model:  UI should drive/come from a model, preferably a persistent model. Models are components that are responsible for handling the data for an app. They're independent from the Views and app components, so they're unaffected by the app's lifecycle and the associated concerns.

 * The main classes or components in Android Architecture are UI Controller (activity/fragment), ViewModel, LiveData and Room.

 ### ViewModel:
 It's a Model to feed data to View(UI Controller's like activity/fragment) Closely. It separate the data from the UI/View so that the data/state can persist untill UI finishes (garbase collected).

 * the viewModel is created by delegating viewModels() UI Controller's method so that the Android system can persist the viewModel object state internally and keep that until the UI is garbase collected or finished.

 ```kotlin
 // 1. add the ViewModel Dependencies inside module's build.gradle
 // 2. create Model class Inheriting form ViewModel()
class GameViewModel: ViewModel() {}
 // 3. Inside UI-Controller (Framgment/Activity) delegate property of the Model class by viewModels()
 private val viewModel: GameViewModel by viewModels()
 ```

 ### UI Controllers(activity/fragment) vs ViewModel:
 The Android system can destroy UI controllers at any time based on certain user interactions or because of system conditions like low memory. Thats why it's not a good place to store app's state. Instead, the decision-making logic about the data should be added in your ViewModel. The ViewModel stores the app related data that isn't destroyed when activity or fragment is destroyed and recreated by the Android framework.

 * Activities and fragments are responsible for drawing views and data to the screen and responding to the user events. As licycle of this is not on developers hand, application state should never live here.

 * ViewModel is responsible for holding and processing all the data needed for the UI. It should never access the view hierarchy (like view binding object) or hold a reference to the activity or the fragment. It will only process and deliver the data to the UI controllers.

 ### ViewBindings:
View binding is a feature that allows you to more easily access views in code. It generates a binding class for each XML layout file. An instance of a binding class contains direct references to all views that have an ID in the corresponding layout.

* Binding is accomplished by inflating the layout file with the activity/fragment Binding object. Binding is also a View Object.
```kotlin
// top level
private lateinit var binding: GameFragmentBinding
// inside specific lifecycle method
binding = GameFragmentBinding.inflate(inflater, container, false)

return binding.root // binding.root is the parent View containing all the child views

// inside another lificycle method
binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = newWord
binding.score.text = getString(R.string.score, newScore)
binding.wordCount.text =
                  getString(R.string.word_count, newWordCount, MAX_NO_OF_WORDS)
```

### LiveData and Observer:
* LiveData is a observable data that can update the specific data ui when state changes
* Observer is a concept that automatically update the ui if the targated live data changes.
```kotlin
// defining livedata | Usually inside a viewmodel class
private val _currentWordCount = MutableLiveData<Int>(0) // default value is 0
val currentWordCount: LiveData<Int> get() = _currentWordCount // public getter
    
private val _currentScrambledWord = MutableLiveData<String>() // no initial/default value
val currentScrambledWord: LiveData<String> get() = _currentScrambledWord // public getter


// setting live data as observable inside UI controller, like activity or fragment class's specific lifycle method (when the view is created)
// so if the observed live data changes, everytime the callback will be tiggered.
viewModel.currentWordCount.observe(viewLifecycleOwner) { newW ->
    binding.wordCount.text = getString(R.string.word_count, newW, MAX_NO_OF_WORDS)
}
viewModel.currentScrambledWord.observe(viewLifecycleOwner, Observer { newWord ->
    binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = newWord
})


```

### DataBinding and LiveData:
Data binding binds the UI components in layouts to data sources using a declarative format. It's a part of the Android Jetpack library.
* In simpler terms Data binding is binding data (from code) to views + view binding (binding views to code)
```kotlin
// Here viewModel is the delegated GameViewModel : ViewModel() instance.
// ViewBinding in UI Controllers view created lificycle method
binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = viewModel.currentScrambledWord

// Databindings in layout xml file. 
// Here gameViewModel is the delegated GameViewModel : ViewModel() instance.
android:text="@{gameViewModel.currentScrambledWord}"
```

* Steps For DataBindings:
 - build.gradle add buildFeatures => dataBinding = true and add => id 'kotlin-kapt as plugins
    - this generates a binary file for every layout xml file. For activity_main.xml, the auto generated class will be ActivityMainBinding (Like View Binding)
 
 - To use DataBinding, the layout file will start with <layout> followed by an optional <data> element and a view (ScrollView or other type of view) root element.
    - use IDE feature to auto convert into databinding layout by alt+enter while keeping cursor on the parent view and select "convert to databinding......."
 
 ```xml
 <layout xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
   xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
   xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">

   <data>

   </data>

   <ScrollView
       android:layout_width="match_parent"
       android:layout_height="match_parent">

       <androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout
         ...
       </androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout>
   </ScrollView>
</layout>
 ```
 
 - instantiate binding as DataBindingUtil on "onCreateView" (for fragment) lifecycle method
    - like => binding = DataBindingUtil.inflate(inflater, R.layout.game_fragment, container, false)
    - instade of viewBinding => binding = GameFragmentBinding.inflate(inflater, container, false)
    - Note: the lateinit declaration of the ViewModel will remain same like ViewBinding => private val viewModel: GameViewModel by viewModels()

- bind the layout variables and lifecycleOwner with the binding object in onCreateView (for fragment) lifecycle method. Like

```kotlin
 binding.gameViewModel = viewModel
 binding.maxNoOfWords = MAX_NO_OF_WORDS
 binding.lifecycleOwner = viewLifecycleOwner
```
- connect layout view using binding expression "@{}" with the layout's declared variables directly, like

```xml
<!-- databinding layout attaching variables with view -->
<data>
    <variable
        name="gameViewModel"
        type="com.example.android.unscramble.ui.game.GameViewModel" />

    <variable
        name="maxNoOfWords"
        type="int" />
</data>
...
<TextView
   android:id="@+id/textView_unscrambled_word"
   ...
   android:text="@{gameViewModel.currentScrambledWord}"
   .../>
``` 
- No LiveData Observer Required: The layout will receive the updates of the changes to the LiveData defined in the custom ViewModel() inherited classes

Commit message:

data binding with string resoruces

design-pattern-kotlin.md, after:

## Overview:
Some common design pattern with quick example

### Builder Pattern:
It's a pattern to build up a complex object in a step by step approach.
```kotlin
open class Item(val name: String, val price: Int)

class Noodles : Item("Noodles", 10) {
    override fun toString(): String {
        return name
    }
}

class Vegetables(vararg val toppings: String) : Item("Vegetables", 5) {
    override fun toString(): String {
        if (toppings.isEmpty()) {
            return "$name Chef's Choice"
        } else {
            return name + " " + toppings.joinToString()
        }
    }
}

class Order(val orderNumber: Int) {
    private val itemList = mutableListOf<Item>()

    fun addItem(newItem: Item): Order {
        itemList.add(newItem)
        return this
    }

    fun addAll(newItems: List<Item>): Order {
        itemList.addAll(newItems)
        return this
    }

    fun print() {
        println("Order #${orderNumber}")
        var total = 0
        for (item in itemList) {
            println("${item}: $${item.price}")
            total += item.price
        }
        println("Total: $${total}")
    }
}

fun main() {
    val ordersList = mutableListOf<Order>()

    // Add an item to an order
    val order1 = Order(1)
    order1.addItem(Noodles())
    ordersList.add(order1)

    // Add multiple items individually
    val order2 = Order(2)
    order2.addItem(Noodles())
    order2.addItem(Vegetables())
    ordersList.add(order2)

    // Add a list of items at one time
    val order3 = Order(3)
    val items = listOf(Noodles(), Vegetables("Carrots", "Beans", "Celery"))
    order3.addAll(items)
    ordersList.add(order3)

    // Use builder pattern
    val order4 = Order(4)
        .addItem(Noodles())
        .addItem(Vegetables("Cabbage", "Onion"))
    ordersList.add(order4)

    // Create and add order directly
    ordersList.add(
        Order(5)
            .addItem(Noodles())
            .addItem(Noodles())
            .addItem(Vegetables("Spinach"))
    )

    // Print out each order
    for (order in ordersList) {
        order.print()
        println()
    }
}

```


### Design Pattern Common:
* Adapter: Adapter is a design pattern that adapts the data into something that can be used by RecyclerView. Usually adapter fetch data from a datastore/databases and format the data to feed the ui/recyclerview.

* ViewHolders: RecyclerView doesn't interact directly with item views, but deals with ViewHolders. A ViewHolder represents a single list item view in RecyclerView, and can be reused when possible. A ViewHolder instance holds references to the individual views within a list item layout (hence the name "view holder"). This makes it easier to update the list item view with new data. View holders also add information that RecyclerView uses to efficiently move views around the screen
* LayoutInflater: inflate an XML layout into a hierarchy of view objects. Or simply it converts xml layout file into a view objects

### Android Architectural Principles:
* The main principles are separation of concerns and driving UI from a model.
 - Separation of concerns: The separation of concerns design principle states that the app should be divided into classes, each with separate responsibilities.
 - Drive UI from a model:  UI should drive/come from a model, preferably a persistent model. Models are components that are responsible for handling the data for an app. They're independent from the Views and app components, so they're unaffected by the app's lifecycle and the associated concerns.

 * The main classes or components in Android Architecture are UI Controller (activity/fragment), ViewModel, LiveData and Room.

 ### ViewModel:
 It's a Model to feed data to View(UI Controller's like activity/fragment) Closely. It separate the data from the UI/View so that the data/state can persist untill UI finishes (garbase collected).

 * the viewModel is created by delegating viewModels() UI Controller's method so that the Android system can persist the viewModel object state internally and keep that until the UI is garbase collected or finished.

 ```kotlin
 // 1. add the ViewModel Dependencies inside module's build.gradle
 // 2. create Model class Inheriting form ViewModel()
class GameViewModel: ViewModel() {}
 // 3. Inside UI-Controller (Framgment/Activity) delegate property of the Model class by viewModels()
 private val viewModel: GameViewModel by viewModels()
 ```

 ### UI Controllers(activity/fragment) vs ViewModel:
 The Android system can destroy UI controllers at any time based on certain user interactions or because of system conditions like low memory. Thats why it's not a good place to store app's state. Instead, the decision-making logic about the data should be added in your ViewModel. The ViewModel stores the app related data that isn't destroyed when activity or fragment is destroyed and recreated by the Android framework.

 * Activities and fragments are responsible for drawing views and data to the screen and responding to the user events. As licycle of this is not on developers hand, application state should never live here.

 * ViewModel is responsible for holding and processing all the data needed for the UI. It should never access the view hierarchy (like view binding object) or hold a reference to the activity or the fragment. It will only process and deliver the data to the UI controllers.

 ### ViewBindings:
View binding is a feature that allows you to more easily access views in code. It generates a binding class for each XML layout file. An instance of a binding class contains direct references to all views that have an ID in the corresponding layout.

* Binding is accomplished by inflating the layout file with the activity/fragment Binding object. Binding is also a View Object.
```kotlin
// top level
private lateinit var binding: GameFragmentBinding
// inside specific lifecycle method
binding = GameFragmentBinding.inflate(inflater, container, false)

return binding.root // binding.root is the parent View containing all the child views

// inside another lificycle method
binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = newWord
binding.score.text = getString(R.string.score, newScore)
binding.wordCount.text =
                  getString(R.string.word_count, newWordCount, MAX_NO_OF_WORDS)
```

### LiveData and Observer:
* LiveData is a observable data that can update the specific data ui when state changes
* Observer is a concept that automatically update the ui if the targated live data changes.
```kotlin
// defining livedata | Usually inside a viewmodel class
private val _currentWordCount = MutableLiveData<Int>(0) // default value is 0
val currentWordCount: LiveData<Int> get() = _currentWordCount // public getter
    
private val _currentScrambledWord = MutableLiveData<String>() // no initial/default value
val currentScrambledWord: LiveData<String> get() = _currentScrambledWord // public getter


// setting live data as observable inside UI controller, like activity or fragment class's specific lifycle method (when the view is created)
// so if the observed live data changes, everytime the callback will be tiggered.
viewModel.currentWordCount.observe(viewLifecycleOwner) { newW ->
    binding.wordCount.text = getString(R.string.word_count, newW, MAX_NO_OF_WORDS)
}
viewModel.currentScrambledWord.observe(viewLifecycleOwner, Observer { newWord ->
    binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = newWord
})


```

### DataBinding and LiveData:
Data binding binds the UI components in layouts to data sources using a declarative format. It's a part of the Android Jetpack library.
* In simpler terms Data binding is binding data (from code) to views + view binding (binding views to code)
```kotlin
// Here viewModel is the delegated GameViewModel : ViewModel() instance.
// ViewBinding in UI Controllers view created lificycle method
binding.textViewUnscrambledWord.text = viewModel.currentScrambledWord

// Databindings in layout xml file. 
// Here gameViewModel is the delegated GameViewModel : ViewModel() instance.
android:text="@{gameViewModel.currentScrambledWord}"
```

* Steps For DataBindings:
 - build.gradle add buildFeatures => dataBinding = true and add => id 'kotlin-kapt as plugins
    - this generates a binary file for every layout xml file. For activity_main.xml, the auto generated class will be ActivityMainBinding (Like View Binding)
 
 - To use DataBinding, the layout file will start with <layout> followed by an optional <data> element and a view (ScrollView or other type of view) root element.
    - use IDE feature to auto convert into databinding layout by alt+enter while keeping cursor on the parent view and select "convert to databinding......."
 
 ```xml
 <layout xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
   xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
   xmlns:tools="http://schemas.android.com/tools">

   <data>

   </data>

   <ScrollView
       android:layout_width="match_parent"
       android:layout_height="match_parent">

       <androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout
         ...
       </androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout>
   </ScrollView>
</layout>
 ```
 
 - instantiate binding as DataBindingUtil on "onCreateView" (for fragment) lifecycle method
    - like => binding = DataBindingUtil.inflate(inflater, R.layout.game_fragment, container, false)
    - instade of viewBinding => binding = GameFragmentBinding.inflate(inflater, container, false)
    - Note: the lateinit declaration of the ViewModel will remain same like ViewBinding => private val viewModel: GameViewModel by viewModels()

- bind the layout variables and lifecycleOwner with the binding object in onCreateView (for fragment) lifecycle method. Like

```kotlin
 binding.gameViewModel = viewModel
 binding.maxNoOfWords = MAX_NO_OF_WORDS
 binding.lifecycleOwner = viewLifecycleOwner
```
- connect layout view using binding expression "@{}" with the layout's declared variables directly, like

```xml
<!-- databinding layout attaching variables with view -->
<data>
    <variable
        name="gameViewModel"
        type="com.example.android.unscramble.ui.game.GameViewModel" />

    <variable
        name="maxNoOfWords"
        type="int" />
</data>
...
<TextView
   android:id="@+id/textView_unscrambled_word"
   ...
   android:text="@{gameViewModel.currentScrambledWord}"
   .../>
``` 
- No LiveData Observer Required: The layout (xml) will receive the updates of the changes to the LiveData defined in the custom viewModel (ViewModel() inherited classes) through data binding in variables.

### Resources in data binding expressions:
A data binding expression can reference app resources using
```xml
<!-- layout.xml -->
android:text="@{@string/example_resource(user.lastName)}"

<!-- strings.xml, here %s will be replaced with "user.lastname" defined in layout file above -->
<string name="example_resource">Last Name: %s</string>
```
